feat(curriculum): add merge sort project to Python curriculum (#52469)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/20-upcoming-python/learn-data-structures-by-building-the-merge-sort-algorithm/656639771fed09b5c0e8fe71.md

---
id: 656639771fed09b5c0e8fe71
title: Step 6
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-6
---

# --description--

Now that you've divided the `array` list into two separate lists, you'll keep dividing each list until every element stands alone in its own list. A list with a single number is always sorted.

To do that, recursively call `merge_sort` inside your function.

# --hints--

You should call `merge_sort` at the bottom of your function body

```js
({
  test: () => {
    const transformedCode = e.code.original["main.py"].replace(/\r/g, "");
    const merge_sort = __helpers.python.getDef("\n" + transformedCode, "merge_sort");
    const { function_body } = merge_sort;

    assert.match(function_body, /merge_sort\s*\(\s*\)/);
  }
})
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```py
def merge_sort(array):
    
    middle_point = len(array) // 2
    left_part = array[:middle_point]

>     right_part = array[middle_point:]

Reviewer: These lines must be inside the editable region. Please remove extra code block

---
id: 656639771fed09b5c0e8fe71
title: Step 5
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-5
---

# --description--

> Now that we've divided the `array` list into two separate lists, we'll do the same thing for each list until every element stands alone.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you've divided the `array` list into two separate lists, you'll do the same thing for each list until every element stands alone.
```

The idea is to keep dividing the array until individual elements are considered. A list with a single number is always sorted.

> To do that, we have to recursively call the `merge_sort` function on the `left_part` and `right_part`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do that, you have to recursively call the `merge_sort` function on the `left_part` and `right_part`.
```
